this is the story of the Philippine
football one in 2009 the philippine
national team was ranked 194 by fifa
within five years they climbed 67 places
and now the national team known as the
Azkals are ranked number 127
for the first time they became number
one in Southeast Asia
this incredible success story is based
on the passion and enthusiasm of one man
this man is done palani he is the Azkals
manager in the map that made a nation
proud and this is his office in tacloban
or what is left of it tacloban is the
city of Don Paulo me the city where the
Philippine football wander started and
the city that has been devastated by the
most powerful typhoon the world has ever
seen on the day of typhoon haiyan my
staff the carpenter and three of his
kids plus his wife were here in this
office when the storm surge came from
the sea it is too strong and too high
they started climbing on the roof but
the walls crumbled and they were left
hanging on the electric wires with the
kids trying to hold on desperately but
the water was too strong and two of the
kids and the mother of the kids were
swept away
Don Paulo me founded the Oscars in this
stadium through his initiative and the
rise of the Azkals football fever caught
tacloban a new generation of
enthusiastic footballers was born some
players became idols
players like John Wayne lohan Yolanda
mattagami la finca Naga on the day of
the typhoon we woke up at 5am because of
the very strong winds we scampered and
run to the house across the street only
when we got there we realized that some
family members were left behind I went
back and found my art and my cousin we
were struggling as the houses around us
started collapsing then the wave
suddenly came and the water was rising
found some Venable a bespoke arena
moncada mataas na dou big
John Wayne lives in San Jose a district
in Tacloban where many promising talents
come from
San Jose is one of the worst affected
areas John Wayne's fate is the fate of
the city the fate of an entire region
almost everybody lost their homes the
relatives or their loved ones I mean
invalid this was my girlfriend's house
where I was that day when the walls
collapsed we all run outside I carried
her cousin while she was holding onto my
back the water rises she was calling my
name I looked back but she was gone
don't wanna bug you right after the
typhoon we started looking for her we
searched for her all over the city even
amongst the dead after three days I
heard that that that body was found here
and through enough a body was floating
right here it was my girlfriend didn't
have a pan de la vez a la cama con ella
lucky this is where we found my nephew's
body solid now it took us another month
before finding the body of my little
niece I lost the things that I treasure
the most my jerseys my spikes even my
socks I don't have anything I can't play
football anymore because nothing is left
to me we were not able to save anything
almost everything was lost we're trying
to live normally but
it's actually difficult because we don't
have
it takes time to clean up and bring life
back 14 million people were affected by
the typhoon 1 million homes were lost
millions lost their jobs and have no
income anymore the United Nations
Development Program is here to help
people restore their livelihoods UNDP
started employing thousands of people to
clear debris this gives people
much-needed cash and hope through cash
for work projects fifty-five percent of
the debris has already been cleared
among the UNDP workers are many football
players all the football fields are
destroyed but football starts its way
back into the streets and any places
these resilient people can find
this is what remains of what we used to
call our food southcenter football
centers have either been washed away or
have become evacuation centers but the
children are eager to play and that's
why we came up with the program we're
everywhere we see an open space we turn
it into a football field dance program
is bringing food and football to the
poor areas after the feeding the
children play football under the
guidance of professional coaches it
brings back joy hope and a feeling of
normalcy
these children have started to make
their first steps their first kicks into
their new life after the disaster caused
by high end they have lost almost
everything but they are not broken they
need our help they cannot do this alone
and they need you to take these steps
with them these kids they have found
their joy they're hope and they're home
in football and football it has found
its home in tacloban please don't forget
the club on so that football may come
home
you